Add abbreviations and restructure slightly (#1718)
exercism/problem-specifications: STYLE-GUIDE.md

### Measurements
All units of measurement must be [SI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_System_of_Units) or [SI-derived](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SI_derived_unit) units.

### Abbreviations, acronyms and initialisms

Abbreviations, acronyms and initialisms are often more difficult to understand than other phrasing options, and can alienate people trying to learn.

Many abbreviations are jargon. Avoid jargon where possible by using alternative language. Don't use abbreviations unless either:
- The abbreviated term is better known than the unabbreviated term
- The text will be excessively verbose without abbreviation

When using abbreviations always explain what the term means on its first use. This will often, but not always, include expanding the abbreviation. It will rarely be sufficient to only expand the abbreviation.

Here are some example rules:
- Prefer "if I recall correctly" to "IIRC"
- Prefer "as far as I know" to "AFAIK"
- Prefer "queue" to "FIFO" and "stack" to "FILO"
- Instead of describing an interface as "RESTful", describe it's specific properties

> - If you must use CRUD, explain that it stands for Create, Read, Update, Delete and that these are the basic SQL actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you must use "CRUD", explain that it stands for Create, Read, Update, Delete and that these are the basic actions in standard databases
```

Under the current rules, the author would also have to define what SQL means.

Author: Good spot.

An some examples of good usage:
- "HyperText Markup Language (HTML) is the language used to describe document structure and content on the web" _(expanded and explained)_
- "DNA, a set of chemical instructions that influence how our bodies are constructed" _(DNA is not expanded because "deoxyribonucleic acid" is unlikely to help explain what DNA is to our audience)_
- "NASA, the United States' space agency, launched the Mariner 2 space probe in..." _(NASA is not expanded because the "National Aerospace and Space Administration" is much better known by its acronym than by its expanded name)_
- "The Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) is filled with sloths. That's why everything takes forever at the DMV" _(Define DMV the first time it is used)_

> 

Reviewer: The current rules forbid uses of "e.g.", "docs", "etc." that don't also define those terms. That's okay if we're sure it's what we want.

Reviewer 2: Right. `etc.` `e.g.` and `ie.` id' like to have as _exceptions_.

Reviewer 3: What about contractions?

- I'd vs I would
- won't vs would not
- couldn't vs could not

Reviewer: won't is short for "will not" :)

I think contractions are fine and don't fall under this rule, but we could add a rule that they're fine?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, contractions in général are okay I think.

Reviewer 3: But sometimes hard to get right.  Regionally (to some ill-conceived idea of "region"), "I'd" might be "I could" or "I would" or "I should" but how do you know which is which as a non-native speaker?  And of course the "would" or "will" problem with "won't".  It is just as easy to write carefully and avoid the contraction for the reader.  (Burden on the writer).  The same way we are careful in how we write e-mail, and don't top post, because it is easier for the writer, but harder on the reader.  (Our readers are kind, we should be kind as well.)

Reviewer: I don't know of any regional dialect that interprets won't as would not or I'd as anything but "I would" 🤷 

I don't want to have to write out don't and won't without contractions all the time, that would feel and (imo) read weird; as if I was putting on an accent.

Reviewer 2: Don't won't can't shouldn't couldn't wouldn't are probably all fine and more well known.

Shan't mayn't mightn't mustn't oughtn't needn't and daren't probably are not.

Reviewer 3: Some of those are pretty common where I am, and some are even more common where I have been.  For writing, I avoid them, because I know I write normally to a more "global" audience.

Reviewer 2: What I meant is that the top list, together with the following:

- that's 
- there's
- what's 
- we're 
- there's
- they're
- that's 
- he'll 
- she'll 
- you'll 
- I'm, 
- I've, 
- let's 
- isn't 
- aren't

...are taught as common contraction, according to my recollection, and the bottom ones aren't. In some of these cases, they might even be more well known than the un-contracted form, but I have no data on that. Just a feeling.

I really don't want to disallow _contractions_, but IF we will disallow them, I would favour a list that's only the uncommon contractions.

Reviewer 3: I try to avoid all of them, but yes, the common ones, when I write, I generally write in my "voice" and so they do at times sneak in.  Maybe we should state "disfavor" contractions, but not outright disallow 'em.

Author: Good discussion - thanks. 

I've added/merged a suggestion above - pls check it over. I don't think we need contractions generally in exercises, but I'm not going to restrict them in mentoring as I want people to be able to use their voice.

> - "The Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) is filled with sloths. That's why everything takes forever at the DMV" _(Define DMV the first time it is used)_

Author: ```suggestion
- "The Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) is filled with sloths. That's why everything takes forever at the DMV" _(Define DMV the first time it is used)_

#### Exceptions

Some abbreviations are considered common, useful, and non-technical enough that we have decided that should be allowed:
- `e.g.` or `eg`
- `i.e.` or `ie`
- `etc.` or `etc`
- `docs`

Contractions (e.g. "won't", "I'm", "that's") should be used sparingly if at all in exercise descriptions, but are not restricted in other language around the site (e.g. website copy, mentoring).
```

This document acts as a Style Guide for the language and wording used in exercises.

## Application

These rules should be followed in all exercises. 
Existing descriptions and test-cases can be updated to adhere to them without requiring "replacement" test cases.

### Consistency within an exercise.

There are some terms that have multiple valid spellings (e.g. "lower case" vs "lowercase"). 
Where a consistent style has not been agreed within this document, these must be consistent within an exercise.

### Exceptions

Exercises may vary from these rules if there is general consensus across maintainers that this is reasonable. 
For example, an exercise about converting between different units might choose not to use SI measurements.

## Language

> All content should be written in US English. In the future other translations may occur, but the "official" Exercism language is US English.

Reviewer 4: I was wondering if there is a resource we could link to that lists some of the differences between US English and UK English? That way people have a convenient resource to check their text against.

Author: Yeah - can you put a seperate issue together for someone to do this pls?

### Measurements
All units of measurement must be [SI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_System_of_Units) or [SI-derived](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SI_derived_unit) units.

### Abbreviations, acronyms and initialisms

> > All abbreviations, acronyms and initialisms should be defined. 

Reviewer 5: Could we use `<abbr>` (and perhaps `<dfn>`) for this? That way people who know what it means can ignore it, but those that don't can look up the meaning. It avoids cluttering up the text and given that it's part of HTML, it'll be accessible too.

E.g. `<dfn id="html"><abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr>
</dfn> is a markup language used to create the semantics and structure
of a web page.` (from https://developer.mozilla.org/de/docs/Web/HTML/Element/abbr#Eine_Abk%C3%BCrzung_definieren)

Reviewer: Personally, I don't really like the hover-to-show definition user experience and prefer just spelling it out in the prose.

Reviewer 2: (could be a user setting, expand by default)

> > - If the unabbreviated term is clear, always include the full wording at first use (e.g. "Domain-specific language (DSL)");

Reviewer 2: What does "If the unabbreviated term is clear" mean? The term "Domain" in this case is jargon *and* ambiguous in the context of programming languages. It's term also doesn't _explain_ what it is. So what is the rule exactly here?

Reviewer 4: I had the same question :) The example seems to me an application of the rule above it ("All abbreviations, acronyms and initialisms should be defined.")

> > - If the term needs more explaination to be clear to someone unfamiliar, explain it: (e.g. "The four basic types of SQL commands are Create, Read, Update, Delete. The initials of these come together to form the word CRUD.");

Reviewer 2: Assume _all_ acronyms are unfamiliar, because the reality is, most of them are.

Reviewer 4: ☝️ I like this

> > - If explaining the acryonm adds no tangible value to the student, simply introduce the acryonm as if it were a "proper noun" (e.g. "People's inherit DNA, a set of chemical instructions that influence how their bodies are constructed")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - If explaining the acryonm adds no tangible value to the student, simply introduce the acryonm as if it were a "proper noun" (e.g. "People's inherit DNA, a set of chemical instructions that influence how their bodies are constructed")
```

This literally leads to people worrying about that they miss something vital about the exercise and quitting because of it, complaining about it or struggling with it

Author: I don't get your comment at all :) You think we should have to write out "deoxyribonucleic acid" rather than just using DNA? I think that just trying to pronounce that in my head would put me off.

Reviewer 2: (see slack for response, then we can come to a clear message and put it here)

Reviewer 2: It should be made clear that _understanding_ what DNA is or what it stands for, isn't important for the exercise or completing it. That should be the rule when something doesn't add tangible value.

It's fine for the story to have "things", but we must make clear that they're not important to understand. Students _will_ spend time looking things up, which is, as you mentioned on slack, a waste.

> > - If explaining the acryonm adds no tangible value to the student, simply introduce the acryonm as if it were a "proper noun" (e.g. "People's inherit DNA, a set of chemical instructions that influence how their bodies are constructed")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - If explaining the abbreviation adds no tangible value to the student, simply introduce it as if it were a "proper noun" (e.g. "People inherit DNA, a set of chemical instructions that influence how their bodies are constructed")
```

Did you mean to put this whole section in a blockquote too?

I think there should be an additional rule about avoiding jargon or abbreviations where another term would be fine (so don't talk about FIFOs if you could instead talk about queues; don't talk about things being RESTful if you can instead talk about what specific properties are good; don't talk about CRUD if you don't need to; don't use a jargon-heavy theme unless it really adds to the exercise; etc.)

- "NASA, the United States' space agency, launched the Mariner 2 space probe in..." _(NASA is not expanded because the "National Aerospace and Space Administration" is much better known by its acronym than by its expanded name)_
- "The Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) is filled with sloths. That's why everything takes forever at the DMV" _(Define DMV the first time it is used)_

#### Exceptions

Some abbreviations are considered common, useful, and non-technical enough that we have decided to permit them:
- `e.g.` or `eg`
- `i.e.` or `ie`
- `etc.` or `etc`
- `docs`

> Contractions (e.g. "won't", "I'm", "that's") should be used sparingly if at all in exercise descriptions, but are not restricted in other language around the site (e.g. website copy, mentoring).

Reviewer 5: Doesn't this belong in "Choice of words"?

Author: Maybe, but as the discussion came up here I figured it might fit. As we flesh this whole thing out more we'll probably find a better structure in general.
